Add an item pick up callback (2) (#7712)
minetest/minetest: doc/lua_api.txt

    * Called when an item is eaten, by `minetest.item_eat`
    * Return `true` or `itemstack` to cancel the default item eat response
      (i.e.: hp increase).

> * `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(func(luaentity, picker, time_from_last_punch, tool_capabilities, dir))`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(function(luaentity, picker, time_from_last_punch, tool_capabilities, dir))`
```

See 08610aad7e70ff2787b7a799af4d40536a56a582

Reviewer 2: Thanks.

    * Called when item is picked up by `picker`.
    * Function is added to `minetest.registered_on_item_pickups`

>     * Newest functions are called first.

Reviewer: I might be wrong, but aren't the oldest ones called first? The for loop seems to iterate from first to the last index:

`for i = 1, #core.registered_on_item_pickups do`

Reviewer 2: You're right. >_<

Reviewer: Or the callback registration function probably inserts the newer methods first. I guess we'll have to check.

Reviewer 2: Tested. Oldest called first is correct for on_pickup.
`register_on_player_receive_fields` is out of scope.

Reviewer: Oh, ok then. :)

Reviewer 2: Btw. I saw now that `register_on_player_receive_fields` uses `make_registration_reverse`, ergo it's documented correctly.

    * Called when an item is eaten, by `minetest.item_eat`
    * Return `true` or `itemstack` to cancel the default item eat response
      (i.e.: hp increase).
* `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(function(luaentity, inventory, picker, ...))`

>     * Called when an item is picked up, by `minetest.item_pickup`.

Reviewer: Use this instead:
```lua
default: `minetest.item_pickup`
```

See [here](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/a5197eaebc61ac6b555a640f36c0b427faef381d/doc/lua_api.txt#L5793) and [here](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/a5197eaebc61ac6b555a640f36c0b427faef381d/doc/lua_api.txt#L5803) for how other callbacks document the default functions.

Reviewer 2: But it is not the default.
`minetest.item_pickup` calls the callbacks of `minetest.register_on_item_pickup` and item def.
It's about the same as above (item_eat).

Reviewer: Ah, I see now. Would it make sense to **make** `minetest.item_pickup` the default, which would be omitted when `on_pickup` has been defined for the item? To add some custom behaviour _alongside_ the actual picking up behaviour, the item can define a custom `on_pickup` callback, that calls `minetest.item_pickup` within. This implementation would be consistent with how the other itemdef callbacks work.

Reviewer 2: `minetest.item_pickup` is for mods that want to pick up an item (eg. vacuuming nodes).
I don't think, it would make sense. By replacing the default you would probably omit the `registered_on_item_pickup` callbacks. Instead of calling a function in the callback, you can simply return `true`.

Reviewer: The `registered_on_pickup` callbacks can be directly run from `on_punch` of the item entity. This is currently how other callbacks are handled. e.g. digging a node will run all `registered_on_dignode` callbacks, but will run `minetest.dig_node` only if the `on_dig` callback hasn't been defined.

Reviewer 2: Many callbacks use two functions, eg. eat (`item_eat` returns a function that uses `do_item_eat`), dig (`dig_node` calls `node_dig`, `node_dig` is like `item_pickup` and removes the node directly[()](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/5560ec8178053b27adac6f277f539975d46267b8/builtin/game/item.lua#L543)).

I think, there are already many inconsistencies.

[Digging a node](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/3d66622772e66154b7624957a27f9be54c4c7c28/src/network/serverpackethandler.cpp#L1285) [always calls the `on_dig` callback](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/eef62c82a2e58700fc1216b0b8c03e421bc77995/src/script/cpp_api/s_node.cpp#L129) [which by default (`node_dig`) does everything (calling callbacks (including `can_dig` which can be compared to `on_pickup`), removing the node, …).](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/5560ec8178053b27adac6f277f539975d46267b8/builtin/game/item.lua#L543) It has to be done like this because digging nodes comes from c++. [`dig_node` is only used by lua mods.](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/5f1cd555cd9d1c64426e173b30b5b792d211c835/src/script/lua_api/l_env.cpp#L456) [The `registered_on_dignodes` callbacks are not always called since they are called by `node_dig`.](https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/5560ec8178053b27adac6f277f539975d46267b8/builtin/game/item.lua#L621-L637)

Btw. should I set the mod origin?

    * Called when an item is eaten, by `minetest.item_eat`
    * Return `true` or `itemstack` to cancel the default item eat response
      (i.e.: hp increase).
* `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(func(luaentity, picker, time_from_last_punch, tool_capabilities, dir))`

>     * Called when item is picked up by `picker`.

Reviewer: `picker` is doesn't sound right. `player` would be nice.

>     * Called when item is picked up by `picker`.

Reviewer 2: `picker` was suggested by paramat: https://github.com/minetest/minetest/pull/6359#discussion_r136722172

>     * Called when item is picked up by `picker`.

Reviewer: Ok then. Nvm :)

    * Returns `ObjectRef`, or `nil` if failed
* `minetest.add_item(pos, item)`: Spawn item
    * Returns `ObjectRef`, or `nil` if failed

> * `minetest.item_pickup(item_luaentity, [inventory, picker, ...])`: Pick up a spawned item.

Reviewer: I don't think this is supposed to be documented, as none of its peers (`core.item_drop`, `core.place_node`, `core.dig_node`, etc.) are.

Reviewer 2: > none of its peers (`core.item_drop`, `core.place_node`, `core.dig_node`, etc.) are.

You're wrong, I think:
https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/60bee4d5cdefc5137c330dd317c6e51d3b1cde0f/doc/lua_api.txt#L4290-L4291
https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/60bee4d5cdefc5137c330dd317c6e51d3b1cde0f/doc/lua_api.txt#L3827-L3828
https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/60bee4d5cdefc5137c330dd317c6e51d3b1cde0f/doc/lua_api.txt#L3829-L3830

* `minetest.register_on_item_eat(function(hp_change, replace_with_item, itemstack, user, pointed_thing))`
    * Called when an item is eaten, by `minetest.item_eat`
    * Return `itemstack` to cancel the default item eat response (i.e.: hp increase).
* `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(function(itemstack, picker, obj, time_from_last_punch,  ...))`
    * Called when an item is picked up, after `itemdef.on_pickup`.
    * Function is added to `minetest.registered_on_item_pickups`.
    * Oldest functions are called first.
    * Parameters:

>       * `itemstack`: The item to be picked up. Do not modify!

Reviewer 3: Also here: copy the stack for safety.

Author: We never copy arguments for each registered function when calling callbacks with `core.run_callbacks`. So, I've removed the note here (not modifying arguments should be the default anyway). I've also added a copy once for all invocations.
A part of the other callbacks run in builtin always copy and don't use `core.run_callbacks`. I could do that here too if wanted.

      * `picker`: ObjectRef or `nil`
      * `obj`: The dropped item (a `"__builtin:item"` luaentity ObjectRef).
      * `time_from_last_punch, ...`: Other parameters from `luaentity:on_punch`.

>     * Return `true` to cancle pick-up. Remaining functions are then not called.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Return `true` to cancel the pick-up . Remaining functions are then not called.
```
Also an inconsistency: Why does `true` to cancel it? `on_pickup` lets it continue on `true`.

Author: Done. But this needs fixes in `core.run_callbacks`. And returning nothing results in cancellation.

* `minetest.register_on_item_eat(function(hp_change, replace_with_item, itemstack, user, pointed_thing))`
    * Called when an item is eaten, by `minetest.item_eat`
    * Return `itemstack` to cancel the default item eat response (i.e.: hp increase).
* `minetest.register_on_item_pickup(function(itemstack, picker, pointed_thing, time_from_last_punch,  ...))`
    * Called by `minetest.item_pickup` before an item is picked up.
    * Function is added to `minetest.registered_on_item_pickups`.
    * Oldest functions are called first.
    * Parameters:
      * `itemstack`: The `ItemStack` to be picked up.
      * `picker`: `ObjectRef` or `nil`
      * `pointed_thing`: The dropped item (a `"__builtin:item"` luaentity) as
        `type="object"` `pointed_thing`.

>       * `time_from_last_punch, ...`: Other parameters from `luaentity:on_punch`.

Author: You mean `on_pickup`. And yes, almost, only the description of `itemstack` differs. In `on_pickup` it's the itemstack in the dropped item object, and here it can be some other itemstack given to `core.item_pickup`. But it makes sense to only list them once.

>     * Return and itemstack to cancel the default item pick-up response (i.e.: adding

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Return an ItemStack to cancel the default item pick-up response (i.e.: adding
```

Author: `itemstack` is correct here, because it can also be a string.

        -- The dropper may be any ObjectRef or nil.
        -- default: minetest.item_drop

        on_pickup = func(luaentity, picker, time_from_last_punch, tool_capabilities, dir),
        -- Called when a dropped item is punched by `picker` to pick it up.
        -- `luaentity` is the luaentity of the dropped item.
        -- `picker` may be any `ObjectRef` or `nil`.
        -- If it is not `nil`, this function is called before running all functions

>         -- that are registered on pickup (see `minetest.register_on_item_pickup`).

Reviewer 4: I believe it is an improvement, yes.

>         -- that are registered on pickup (see `minetest.register_on_item_pickup`).

Reviewer 2: Ok, done.

    * `param2` overrides facedir and wallmounted `param2`
    * returns `itemstack, position`
      * `position`: the location the node was placed to. `nil` if nothing was placed.
* `minetest.item_pickup(itemstack, picker, pointed_thing, time_from_last_punch, ...)`

>     * Calls `registered_on_item_pickups` functions and adds the item to the picker's
>       inventory.
>     * See also: `minetest.register_on_item_pickup`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Runs callbacks registered by `minetest.register_on_item_pickup` and adds
      the item to the picker's `"main"` inventory list. 
```

        -- The dropper may be any ObjectRef or nil.
        -- default: minetest.item_drop

        on_pickup = function(itemstack, picker, obj, time_from_last_punch, ...),
        -- Called when a dropped item is punched by a player.
        -- If this callback is defined, it will be executed before all the
        -- `registered_on_item_pickup` callbacks (see `minetest.register_on_item_pickup`).
        -- Parameters:

>         -- * `itemstack`: The itemstack to be picked up. Do not modify if you

Reviewer 3: Make it idiot-proof. Copy the stack. This note should not be necessary.
